README.md, before:

# NBA Fantasy Bets

A live 24/7 fantasy betting platform for NBA games where you and your friends can place bets with virtual currency throughout the NBA season.

## Features

- **Live Odds**: Real-time NBA betting odds that update hourly
- **Multiple Bet Types**: Place bets on money lines, spreads, and totals
- **User Accounts**: Create an account to track your betting history and performance
- **Leaderboard**: Compete with friends to see who has the best betting record
- **Season-Long Stats**: Track your betting performance throughout the NBA season
- **Responsive Design**: Fully responsive UI that works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Secure Authentication**: JWT-based authentication with enhanced error handling and logging
- **Modern Sportsbook UI**: Dark-themed interface with intuitive betting cards and clear odds display
- **Interactive Betslip**: Dynamic betslip that appears when selecting bets with real-time calculations

## Recent Updates

- **Betslip Component**: Added a fully functional betslip that appears when users select a bet
- **Modern Sportsbook Layout**: Redesigned the betting page with a dark theme and improved layout
- **Enhanced Odds Display**: Clearer presentation of decimal odds with consistent formatting
- **Improved Game Time Visibility**: Fixed display issues to ensure game times are always visible
- **Enhanced Authentication System**: Improved user authentication with better token management and error handling
- **Detailed Logging**: Added comprehensive logging throughout the application for easier debugging
- **Improved Error Handling**: Better error messages and recovery mechanisms for API failures
- **User Password Support**: Added optional password authentication for increased security
- **Security Enhancements**: Removed hardcoded credentials and implemented proper environment variable usage

## Security Best Practices

This application uses environment variables for all sensitive information. Never commit sensitive credentials directly to the codebase.

### Setting Up Environment Variables

1. Create a `.env` file in the server directory based on the `.env.example` template
2. Add your MongoDB connection string, JWT secret, and API keys to this file
3. Make sure the `.env` file is included in your `.gitignore` to prevent accidental commits

Example `.env` file:
```
PORT=5000
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@<cluster-address>/nba-fantasy-bets?retryWrites=true&w=majority
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key_change_this_in_production
ODDS_API_KEY=your_odds_api_key
NBA_API_KEY=your_nba_api_key
NODE_ENV=development
```

### Important Security Notes

- Never hardcode credentials in your application code
- Regularly rotate your API keys and passwords
- Use environment-specific variables for different deployment environments
- Always validate and sanitize user inputs to prevent injection attacks

## Tech Stack

### Backend
- Node.js with Express
- MongoDB with Mongoose
- JWT for authentication
- Axios for API requests
- Node-cron for scheduled tasks
- Winston for logging

### Frontend
- React with React Router
- Material UI for components and styling
- Axios for API requests
- Chart.js for data visualization
- Context API for state management

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- MongoDB Atlas account (free tier)
- API key from The Odds API (free tier with 500 requests/month)

### MongoDB Atlas Setup

1. Go to [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register) and create an account
2. Click "Build a Database" and select the FREE tier (M0 Sandbox)
3. Choose AWS as the provider and select a region close to you
4. Click "Create Cluster" (this will take a few minutes to provision)
5. When prompted to set up security:
   - Create a database user (remember this username and password)
   - For network access, choose "Allow access from anywhere" for simplicity
6. Once your cluster is created, click "Connect"
7. Select "Connect your application"
8. Copy the connection string - it will look like:
   ```
   mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   ```
9. Replace `<username>` and `<password>` with your database user credentials
10. Update the MONGODB_URI in your .env file with this connection string, adding the database name:
    ```
    MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/nba-fantasy-bets?retryWrites=true&w=majority
    ```

### Installation

1. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/bettingmightbefun/NBA-FantasyBets.git
cd NBA-FantasyBets
```

2. Install dependencies for both server and client
```
# Install server dependencies
cd server
npm install

# Install client dependencies
cd ../client
npm install
```

3. Configure environment variables
   - Create a `.env` file in the server directory based on the `.env.example` file
   - Add your MongoDB Atlas connection string, JWT secret, and The Odds API key
   - Example .env file:
     ```
     NODE_ENV=development
     PORT=5000
     MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/nba-fantasy-bets?retryWrites=true&w=majority
     JWT_SECRET=your_secure_jwt_secret_key
     ODDS_API_KEY=your_odds_api_key
     ```

4. Start the development servers
```
# Start the backend server
cd server
npm run dev

# Start the frontend client
cd ../client
npm run dev
```

5. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## Using the Betting Interface

### Placing a Bet
1. Browse the available games on the Betting page
2. Click on any odds box (spread, moneyline, or total) to select a bet
3. The betslip will appear with your selection
4. Enter your wager amount in the "WAGER" field
5. The potential winnings will automatically calculate in the "TO WIN" field
6. Click "Place Bet" to confirm your wager

### Understanding Odds
- All odds are displayed in decimal format (e.g., 1.95)
- For a $1 bet at odds of 1.95, your potential profit is $0.95
- The betslip shows the net profit (excluding your original stake)

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login a user
- `GET /api/auth/profile` - Get user profile

### Users
- `GET /api/users/leaderboard` - Get user leaderboard
- `GET /api/users/bets` - Get user's betting history

### Odds
- `GET /api/odds` - Get upcoming games with odds
- `GET /api/odds/live` - Get live games
- `GET /api/odds/finished` - Get finished games
- `GET /api/odds/:id` - Get a specific game with odds

### Bets
- `POST /api/bets` - Place a new bet
- `GET /api/bets` - Get user's bets
- `GET /api/bets/:id` - Get a specific bet
- `DELETE /api/bets/:id` - Cancel a bet

## Deployment

The application is deployed on Render.com with the following configuration:

### Backend Service
- **Build Command**: `npm install`
- **Start Command**: `npm start`
- **Environment Variables**: Configure the same variables as in your .env file

### Frontend Static Site
- **Build Command**: `cd client && npm install && npm run build`
- **Publish Directory**: `client/dist`

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **MongoDB Connection Issues**
   - Ensure your IP is whitelisted in MongoDB Atlas
   - Verify your connection string is correct
   - Check that your database user has the correct permissions

2. **Authentication Problems**
   - Clear your browser's local storage if you experience login issues
   - Ensure your JWT_SECRET is properly set in the .env file
   - Check server logs for detailed error messages

3. **API Rate Limiting**
   - The free tier of The Odds API has a limit of 500 requests per month
   - Consider upgrading if you need more requests

4. **Betslip Calculation Issues**
   - If the TO WIN amount seems incorrect, refresh the page and try again
   - Ensure you're entering a valid number in the wager field

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgements

- [The Odds API](https://the-odds-api.com/) for providing sports betting odds
- [NBA API](https://www.nba.com/stats/) for NBA game data
- [Material UI](https://mui.com/) for the UI components
- [Chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/) for data visualization

Commit message:

Update README with new features: user balance management and bet cancellation

README.md, after:

# NBA Fantasy Bets

A live 24/7 fantasy betting platform for NBA games where you and your friends can place bets with virtual currency throughout the NBA season.

## Features

- **Live Odds**: Real-time NBA betting odds that update hourly
- **Multiple Bet Types**: Place bets on money lines, spreads, and totals
- **User Accounts**: Create an account to track your betting history and performance
- **Leaderboard**: Compete with friends to see who has the best betting record
- **Season-Long Stats**: Track your betting performance throughout the NBA season
- **Responsive Design**: Fully responsive UI that works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Secure Authentication**: JWT-based authentication with enhanced error handling and logging
- **Modern Sportsbook UI**: Dark-themed interface with intuitive betting cards and clear odds display
- **Interactive Betslip**: Dynamic betslip that appears when selecting bets with real-time calculations
- **Bet Cancellation**: Users can cancel pending bets until the match starts
- **Admin Balance Management**: Administrators can adjust user balances directly from the Admin Panel

## Recent Updates

- **Admin Balance Management**: Added ability for admins to update user balances directly from the Admin Panel
- **Bet Cancellation System**: Implemented functionality for users to cancel their bets until the match starts
- **Automatic Bet Settlement**: Enhanced system to automatically update bet statuses and pay out winnings when games finish
- **Betslip Component**: Added a fully functional betslip that appears when users select a bet
- **Modern Sportsbook Layout**: Redesigned the betting page with a dark theme and improved layout
- **Enhanced Odds Display**: Clearer presentation of decimal odds with consistent formatting
- **Improved Game Time Visibility**: Fixed display issues to ensure game times are always visible
- **Enhanced Authentication System**: Improved user authentication with better token management and error handling
- **Detailed Logging**: Added comprehensive logging throughout the application for easier debugging
- **Improved Error Handling**: Better error messages and recovery mechanisms for API failures
- **User Password Support**: Added optional password authentication for increased security
- **Security Enhancements**: Removed hardcoded credentials and implemented proper environment variable usage

## Security Best Practices

This application uses environment variables for all sensitive information. Never commit sensitive credentials directly to the codebase.

### Setting Up Environment Variables

1. Create a `.env` file in the server directory based on the `.env.example` template
2. Add your MongoDB connection string, JWT secret, and API keys to this file
3. Make sure the `.env` file is included in your `.gitignore` to prevent accidental commits

Example `.env` file:
```
PORT=5000
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@<cluster-address>/nba-fantasy-bets?retryWrites=true&w=majority
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key_change_this_in_production
ODDS_API_KEY=your_odds_api_key
NBA_API_KEY=your_nba_api_key
NODE_ENV=development
```

### Important Security Notes

- Never hardcode credentials in your application code
- Regularly rotate your API keys and passwords
- Use environment-specific variables for different deployment environments
- Always validate and sanitize user inputs to prevent injection attacks

## Tech Stack

### Backend
- Node.js with Express
- MongoDB with Mongoose
- JWT for authentication
- Axios for API requests
- Node-cron for scheduled tasks
- Winston for logging

### Frontend
- React with React Router
- Material UI for components and styling
- Axios for API requests
- Chart.js for data visualization
- Context API for state management

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- MongoDB Atlas account (free tier)
- API key from The Odds API (free tier with 500 requests/month)

### MongoDB Atlas Setup

1. Go to [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register) and create an account
2. Click "Build a Database" and select the FREE tier (M0 Sandbox)
3. Choose AWS as the provider and select a region close to you
4. Click "Create Cluster" (this will take a few minutes to provision)
5. When prompted to set up security:
   - Create a database user (remember this username and password)
   - For network access, choose "Allow access from anywhere" for simplicity
6. Once your cluster is created, click "Connect"
7. Select "Connect your application"
8. Copy the connection string - it will look like:
   ```
   mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   ```
9. Replace `<username>` and `<password>` with your database user credentials
10. Update the MONGODB_URI in your .env file with this connection string, adding the database name:
    ```
    MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/nba-fantasy-bets?retryWrites=true&w=majority
    ```

### Installation

1. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/bettingmightbefun/NBA-FantasyBets.git
cd NBA-FantasyBets
```

2. Install dependencies for both server and client
```
# Install server dependencies
cd server
npm install

# Install client dependencies
cd ../client
npm install
```

3. Configure environment variables
   - Create a `.env` file in the server directory based on the `.env.example` file
   - Add your MongoDB Atlas connection string, JWT secret, and The Odds API key
   - Example .env file:
     ```
     NODE_ENV=development
     PORT=5000
     MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/nba-fantasy-bets?retryWrites=true&w=majority
     JWT_SECRET=your_secure_jwt_secret_key
     ODDS_API_KEY=your_odds_api_key
     ```

4. Start the development servers
```
# Start the backend server
cd server
npm run dev

# Start the frontend client
cd ../client
npm run dev
```

5. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## Using the Betting Interface

### Placing a Bet
1. Browse the available games on the Betting page
2. Click on any odds box (spread, moneyline, or total) to select a bet
3. The betslip will appear with your selection
4. Enter your wager amount in the "WAGER" field
5. The potential winnings will automatically calculate in the "TO WIN" field
6. Click "Place Bet" to confirm your wager

### Cancelling a Bet
1. Navigate to the Bet History page
2. Find the pending bet you wish to cancel (must be before the game starts)
3. Click the cancel icon in the Actions column
4. Confirm the cancellation in the dialog
5. Your wager amount will be refunded to your balance immediately

### Understanding Odds
- All odds are displayed in decimal format (e.g., 1.95)
- For a $1 bet at odds of 1.95, your potential profit is $0.95
- The betslip shows the net profit (excluding your original stake)

### Admin Features
1. Navigate to the Admin Panel (accessible only to admin users)
2. View all user accounts, balances, and betting statistics
3. Update user balances by clicking the balance icon next to any user
4. Enter the new balance amount and confirm to update the user's funds
5. Delete user accounts if necessary (except your own admin account)

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login a user
- `GET /api/auth/profile` - Get user profile

### Users
- `GET /api/users/leaderboard` - Get user leaderboard
- `GET /api/users/bets` - Get user's betting history
- `PUT /api/users/:id` - Update user information (including balance)

### Odds
- `GET /api/odds` - Get upcoming games with odds
- `GET /api/odds/live` - Get live games
- `GET /api/odds/finished` - Get finished games
- `GET /api/odds/:id` - Get a specific game with odds

### Bets
- `POST /api/bets` - Place a new bet
- `GET /api/bets` - Get user's bets
- `GET /api/bets/:id` - Get a specific bet
- `DELETE /api/bets/:id` - Cancel a bet (if game hasn't started)

## Deployment

The application is deployed on Render.com with the following configuration:

### Backend Service
- **Build Command**: `npm install`
- **Start Command**: `npm start`
- **Environment Variables**: Configure the same variables as in your .env file

### Frontend Static Site
- **Build Command**: `cd client && npm install && npm run build`
- **Publish Directory**: `client/dist`

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **MongoDB Connection Issues**
   - Ensure your IP is whitelisted in MongoDB Atlas
   - Verify your connection string is correct
   - Check that your database user has the correct permissions

2. **Authentication Problems**
   - Clear your browser's local storage if you experience login issues
   - Ensure your JWT_SECRET is properly set in the .env file
   - Check server logs for detailed error messages

3. **API Rate Limiting**
   - The free tier of The Odds API has a limit of 500 requests per month
   - Consider upgrading if you need more requests

4. **Betslip Calculation Issues**
   - If the TO WIN amount seems incorrect, refresh the page and try again
   - Ensure you're entering a valid number in the wager field

5. **Bet Cancellation Issues**
   - Bets can only be cancelled if the game hasn't started yet
   - If the cancel button is not visible, the game may have already started
   - Check the server logs if cancellation fails unexpectedly

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgements

- [The Odds API](https://the-odds-api.com/) for providing sports betting odds
- [NBA API](https://www.nba.com/stats/) for NBA game data
- [Material UI](https://mui.com/) for the UI components
- [Chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/) for data visualization
